#Brief document on Amazon Redshift service

- Fast, fully-managed Petabytes scaled data warehouse.
- Designed for high performance and analysis information.
- Operates on RDMS, hence compatible with other RDMS applications.
- Based upon Postgresql 8.0.2
- A data warehouse is used to consolidate data from multiple sources and allows you
  to run BI tools which then helps you identify actionable business intelligence data.
- This will then help you to drive your organization with business driven results
  and decisions.
- Runs on a paradigm of Extract, Transform and Load.

Components of Redshift:
- Cluster:
  Main or the core component of Amazon Redshift service which has its own Redshift
  engine and has at least one database.
  Each cluster component will have at least 1 compute node. If there are more than
  1 compute node, then Amazon will create one more component called Leader Node.
  Leader Node has the role of coordinating the communication between the compute
  Nodes and other external apps. When external apps query the data from the Redshift
  data warehouse, Leader Node creates the execution plans and returns the results
  of the query.
  If the query from the external apps references to the tables associated with
  the compute nodes, this code is then distributed to the cluster node to obtain
  the required data which is then sent back to the Leader Node to deliver it to
  the external apps. Leader Node thus acts as a gateway between the external applications
  and cluster node.
  Each compute node is itself split into slices called as Node slices. A Node Slice
  is simply a partition of the Compute Node where the node's memory and disk spaces
  live.
  Each Node Slice then process the operation given by the Leader Node where parallel
  operations can be performed across all slices and all nodes at once for the same query.

- Connectivity:
  Communication between Business Intelligence applications and Amazon Redshift
  database can be established using either ODBC or JDBC.

- Perfomance features:
  Massive Parallel Programming
  Columnar Data Storage
  Result caching. (Results are cached in the memory of the Leader Node, whenever a
  query is made to the Redshift Database, Leader Node first checks for the results
  within its memory)
