# Elastic Load Balancers

The main function of ELB is to help manage and control the flow of inbound requests
destined to the group of targets by distributing these requests evenly across the
targeted resource group.
These targets could be a fleet of EC2 instances, Lambda functions, IP addresses
or even containers.
The targets defined within the ELB could be situated across different Availability
Zones or in a single Availability Zone.

Load Balancer Types:
  - Application Load Balancer:
    Flexible feature set for your web applications running the HTTP and HTTPS protocols.
    Operates at the request level.
    Advanced routing, TLS termination, visibility features targeted at application architectures.

  - Network Load Balancer:
    Ultra-High performance while maintaining low latencies.
    Operates at the connection level, routing traffic to targets within VPC
    Handles millions of requests per second.

  - Classic Load Balancer:
    Used for applications that were built using existing classic EC2 environment.
    Operates at both connection and request level.

ELB Components:
  - Listeners:
    For every load balancer, you must configure at least one listener.
    The listener defines how your inbound connections are routed to your target groups
    based on ports and protocols set as conditions.
  - Target Groups:
    A target group is a set a resources that you want your ELB to route requests to.
    You can configure your ELB with a number of different target groups, each
    associated with different listener configuration and associated rules.
  - Rules:
    Rules are associated to each listener that you have configured within your ELB
    They help to define how an incoming request gets routed to which target groups.
  - Health Checks:
    A health check is performed against the resources defined within the target groups.
    These health checks allow the ELB to send a response to contact each target
    using a specified protocal to receive a response.
    If response is not received then ELB will mark the target as unhealthy and will
    stop sending requests.
  - ELB Nodes:
    For each AZ selected, an ELB will be placed within that AZ.
    We need to ensure that we have an ELB Node associated to any AZ for which we
    want to route traffic to.
    The nodes are used by the ELB to distribute traffic to the target groups.
  - Cross Zone load balancing:
    When cross-zone load balancing is enabled, the ELB will distribute all incoming
    traffic evenly between all targets across different AZs.
    When cross-zone load balancing is disabled, each ELB in its associated AZ will
    distribute traffic to the targets within its AZ.

ELB -> Listener -> Rule -> Condition -> Action (This is the ELB flow at basic flow)

Internal or Internet-Facing ELB:
  - Internet-Facing ELB:
    The nodes of the ELB are accessible via the internet and so have a public DNS
    that can be resolved to public IP address, in addition to internal IP address.
    This allows the ELB to server the incoming traffic from the internet before
    routing to the target groups.
  - Internal ELB:
    An internal ELB has a private IP address, this means it can only serve requests
    which can originate within your VPC.
